ui-tests/README.md, before:

# Integration Testing

This folder contains the integration tests of the extension.

They are defined using [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro) test runner
and [Galata](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/tree/master/galata) helper.

The Playwright configuration is defined in [playwright.config.js](./playwright.config.js).

The JupyterLab server configuration to use for the integration test is defined
in [jupyter_server_test_config.py](./jupyter_server_test_config.py).

The default configuration will produce video for failing tests and an HTML report.

> There is a new experimental UI mode that you may fall in love with; see [that video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jF0yA-JLQW0).

## Run the tests

> All commands are assumed to be executed from the root directory

To run the tests, you need to:

1. Compile the extension:

```sh
jlpm install
jlpm build:prod
```

> Check the extension is installed in JupyterLab.

2. Install test dependencies (needed only once):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm install
jlpm playwright install
cd ..
```

3. Execute the [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro) tests:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm playwright test
```

Test results will be shown in the terminal. In case of any test failures, the test report
will be opened in your browser at the end of the tests execution; see
[Playwright documentation](https://playwright.dev/docs/test-reporters#html-reporter)
for configuring that behavior.

## Benchmark Harness

The benchmark harness lives in `tests/filebrowser-benchmark.spec.ts` and is run with:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm bench:filebrowser
```

### Environment variables

- `TARGET_URL`: point tests to an already-running JupyterLab, for example
  `http://localhost:8888/lab?token=...`.
  - When set, Playwright does **not** start its own `webServer`.
- `BENCHMARK_SAMPLE_COUNT`: number of sequential benchmark samples (default `3`).
- `BENCHMARK_PARALLEL_USERS`: number of concurrent browser contexts per sample (default `2`).
- `VERBOSE=1`: enables detailed progress logs for each benchmark step and server probe timing headers.

### Examples

Run defaults against managed local server:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm bench:filebrowser
```

Run against pre-started server with verbose output:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
VERBOSE=1 TARGET_URL='http://localhost:8888/lab?token=...' jlpm bench:filebrowser
```

Run a smaller quick check:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
BENCHMARK_SAMPLE_COUNT=1 BENCHMARK_PARALLEL_USERS=1 jlpm bench:filebrowser
```

Benchmark output is written to `benchmark-results/filebrowser.json`.

## Update the tests snapshots

> All commands are assumed to be executed from the root directory

If you are comparing snapshots to validate your tests, you may need to update
the reference snapshots stored in the repository. To do that, you need to:

1. Compile the extension:

```sh
jlpm install
jlpm build:prod
```

> Check the extension is installed in JupyterLab.

2. Install test dependencies (needed only once):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm install
jlpm playwright install
cd ..
```

3. Execute the [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro) command:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm playwright test -u
```

> Some discrepancy may occurs between the snapshots generated on your computer and
> the one generated on the CI. To ease updating the snapshots on a PR, you can
> type `please update playwright snapshots` to trigger the update by a bot on the CI.
> Once the bot has computed new snapshots, it will commit them to the PR branch.

## Create tests

> All commands are assumed to be executed from the root directory

To create tests, the easiest way is to use the code generator tool of playwright:

1. Compile the extension:

```sh
jlpm install
jlpm build:prod
```

> Check the extension is installed in JupyterLab.

2. Install test dependencies (needed only once):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm install
jlpm playwright install
cd ..
```

3. Start the server:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm start
```

4. Execute the [Playwright code generator](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen) in **another terminal**:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm playwright codegen localhost:8888
```

## Debug tests

> All commands are assumed to be executed from the root directory

To debug tests, a good way is to use the inspector tool of playwright:

1. Compile the extension:

```sh
jlpm install
jlpm build:prod
```

> Check the extension is installed in JupyterLab.

2. Install test dependencies (needed only once):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm install
jlpm playwright install
cd ..
```

3. Execute the Playwright tests in [debug mode](https://playwright.dev/docs/debug):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm playwright test --debug
```

## Upgrade Playwright and the browsers

To update the web browser versions, you must update the package `@playwright/test`:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm up "@playwright/test"
jlpm playwright install
```

Commit message:

Add UI timing instrumentation and baseline benchmark snapshot

ui-tests/README.md, after:

# Integration Testing

This folder contains the integration tests of the extension.

They are defined using [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro) test runner
and [Galata](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/tree/master/galata) helper.

The Playwright configuration is defined in [playwright.config.js](./playwright.config.js).

The JupyterLab server configuration to use for the integration test is defined
in [jupyter_server_test_config.py](./jupyter_server_test_config.py).

The default configuration will produce video for failing tests and an HTML report.

> There is a new experimental UI mode that you may fall in love with; see [that video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jF0yA-JLQW0).

## Run the tests

> All commands are assumed to be executed from the root directory

To run the tests, you need to:

1. Compile the extension:

```sh
jlpm install
jlpm build:prod
```

> Check the extension is installed in JupyterLab.

2. Install test dependencies (needed only once):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm install
jlpm playwright install
cd ..
```

3. Execute the [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro) tests:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm playwright test
```

Test results will be shown in the terminal. In case of any test failures, the test report
will be opened in your browser at the end of the tests execution; see
[Playwright documentation](https://playwright.dev/docs/test-reporters#html-reporter)
for configuring that behavior.

## Benchmark Harness

The benchmark harness lives in `tests/filebrowser-benchmark.spec.ts` and is run with:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm bench:filebrowser
```

### Environment variables

- `TARGET_URL`: point tests to an already-running JupyterLab, for example
  `http://localhost:8888/lab?token=...`.
  - When set, Playwright does **not** start its own `webServer`.
- `BENCHMARK_SAMPLE_COUNT`: number of sequential benchmark samples (default `3`).
- `BENCHMARK_PARALLEL_USERS`: number of concurrent browser contexts per sample (default `2`).
- `VERBOSE=1`: enables detailed progress logs for each benchmark step and server probe timing headers.

### Examples

Run defaults against managed local server:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm bench:filebrowser
```

Run against pre-started server with verbose output:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
VERBOSE=1 TARGET_URL='http://localhost:8888/lab?token=...' jlpm bench:filebrowser
```

Run a smaller quick check:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
BENCHMARK_SAMPLE_COUNT=1 BENCHMARK_PARALLEL_USERS=1 jlpm bench:filebrowser
```

Benchmark output is written to `benchmark-results/filebrowser.json`.
The report includes both:
- `summaryMs`: UI-observed timings for first display, unfold, fold, and re-show.
- `summaryBreakdownMs`: averaged backend and client-stage timings captured per tree request (server headers and instrumented frontend stages).

For benchmark runs, the page installs a callback at `window.__JUPYTERLAB_UNFOLD_BENCHMARK_HOOK__` and the extension emits per-request timing events to that hook.

## Update the tests snapshots

> All commands are assumed to be executed from the root directory

If you are comparing snapshots to validate your tests, you may need to update
the reference snapshots stored in the repository. To do that, you need to:

1. Compile the extension:

```sh
jlpm install
jlpm build:prod
```

> Check the extension is installed in JupyterLab.

2. Install test dependencies (needed only once):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm install
jlpm playwright install
cd ..
```

3. Execute the [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro) command:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm playwright test -u
```

> Some discrepancy may occurs between the snapshots generated on your computer and
> the one generated on the CI. To ease updating the snapshots on a PR, you can
> type `please update playwright snapshots` to trigger the update by a bot on the CI.
> Once the bot has computed new snapshots, it will commit them to the PR branch.

## Create tests

> All commands are assumed to be executed from the root directory

To create tests, the easiest way is to use the code generator tool of playwright:

1. Compile the extension:

```sh
jlpm install
jlpm build:prod
```

> Check the extension is installed in JupyterLab.

2. Install test dependencies (needed only once):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm install
jlpm playwright install
cd ..
```

3. Start the server:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm start
```

4. Execute the [Playwright code generator](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen) in **another terminal**:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm playwright codegen localhost:8888
```

## Debug tests

> All commands are assumed to be executed from the root directory

To debug tests, a good way is to use the inspector tool of playwright:

1. Compile the extension:

```sh
jlpm install
jlpm build:prod
```

> Check the extension is installed in JupyterLab.

2. Install test dependencies (needed only once):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm install
jlpm playwright install
cd ..
```

3. Execute the Playwright tests in [debug mode](https://playwright.dev/docs/debug):

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm playwright test --debug
```

## Upgrade Playwright and the browsers

To update the web browser versions, you must update the package `@playwright/test`:

```sh
cd ./ui-tests
jlpm up "@playwright/test"
jlpm playwright install
```
